streamed in a long time we're doing a
book called mathematics and lean I want
to do more formal mathematics more
specifically there's this book ideals
varieties and algorithms and I want to
uh
prove or do something with groer bases
and I want to learn that but I want to
do all the exercises in the book
formally because I feel
like uh then it'll be easier for me to
work on my own and actually know that
the proofs are right so I've already
done a number of this but I feel like I
wasn't taking it seriously I feel like
on stream I'll take it more
seriously okay the goal of this book is
to teach you formal to teach you to
formalize mathematics using the lean for
interactive proof assistant it assumes
that you know some mathematics but does
not require much test maybe I'll turn it
down just a little
bit
okay although we will cover examples
ranging from number Theory to measure
Theory and Analysis we will focus on
Elementary aspects of those fields in
the hopes that uh they are not familiar
to you you can pick them up as you go we
don't presuppose any background with
formal methods formalization can be seen
as a kind of computer programming we
will write mathematical functions
theorems and proofs in a regimented
language like a programming language
that lean can understand in return lead
lean provides feedback and information
interprets expressions and guarantees
that they're well formed ultimately
certifies the correctness of our
proofs okay so then it just goes through
how to use the [__] extension and all
that
okay we intend for you to work on the
exercises uh the text will often include
examples like a V hello
world let's see what is the doc string
for a
v see is it oh wait you know what I
might need to do
this I thought I would get
uh
for okay sorry I had to fix that stupid
for some reason the GitHub co-pilot
thing made control/ not comment out
things all
right put simply lean as a tool for
building complex expressions in a formal
language known as the dependent type
Theory every expression has a type and
you can use check to print it some
Expressions have Type n or n to n these
are mathematical
objects we just uh is there a way to
hide this
thing whatever I'll just get used to
it
okay okay so check oh
wait need to delete
this okay so it takes a bit because he
needs to import all of this and it takes
a while all right so we can see 2+ 2 is
of Type
n this uh function is probably n to n
there we
go okay some Expressions have typed prop
for proposition these are mathematical
statements like the equality of 2+ 2
equal to 4 you can check this but it
doesn't actually say whether or not it's
true it says it's a proposition so this
is not a proof of it being true
now here's a more interesting
proposition for all XYZ and N natural
numbers where n is greater than 2 and x
* y * Z is not zero meaning none of
these elements are
zero then it implies that x to the N
plus y to the N is not equal to Z to the
N so there does not exist some
combination of these where n is greater
than two and none of them are
zero so
uh you can check this this is also just
of type prop so it's the exact same type
as 2 plus 2 equal to four um now here is
a
proof
um here's a proof of 2 plus 2 = 4 and
this uh let's see what it says about
rfl some Expressions have a type P where
P itself is of type has Type
prop so if you check
easy easy is of type 2 + 2 equal to 4
which is a
proposition okay such ex such an
expression is a uh a proof of the
proposition
P if you manage to construct an
expression of type forat Last Theorem
and lean accepts it as a term of that
type you've done something very okay so
let's deconstruct that if you manage to
construct an expression of type forat
Last Theorem and lean accepts it as a
term of that type and You' have done
something very
impressive using sorry is cheating and
lean knows it so now you know the game
all that is left to learn are the rules
very
cool this book is complimentary to a
companion tutorial called theorem
proving in lean which provides a more
thorough introduction to the underlying
logical framework and core syntax of
lean theorem proving and lean is for
people who prefer to read a user manual
cover to cover before using a new
dishwasher if you're the kind of per
person who prefers to hit the start
button and figure out how to activate
the pot scrubber feature later it makes
more sense to start here and refer back
to they improving in lean as necessary
another thing that distinguishes
mathematics and lean from theor proving
in lean is that uh here we place a much
greater emphasis on the use of tactics
given that we are trying to build
complex Expressions lean offers two ways
of going about it we can write down the
Expressions
themselves or we can provide lean with
instructions as to how to construct them
for example the following expression
represents a proof that the of the fact
that if n is even then so is n *
n
so for all natural numbers M and N even
n implies even M *
n
okay so what's happening
here I still
get confused by this syntax
basically
um basically by the definition of even n
you're able to take n equal to K some K
plus K uh I don't really get these
angled brackets or whatever but then
what you do is you you substitute n
equal to K plus K in the expression of a
uh in the expression
of
M * n so then you say m * n is equal to
M * K plus M *
K
so so before we just rewrite HK and we
have M * k + K is equal
to and then to justify that mole ad
means the left
distributivity
of times over plus so then you get to
this equality and so then we're good and
we have a proof of this hypothesis that
M * n is equal to M * k + m m *
K
now I don't exactly know how this
works I feel like it used to show show
me a dock string for the
tactic I don't know why it's not doing
that
anymore but anyways then you basically
take L to be M *
k
the proof term can be compressed to a
single
line a function
of I don't really get these angle
brackets they don't really explain it
the following is instead a tactic style
proof of the same theorem where theorem
starting with comma comments or commas
or
whatever
dashes okay so let's walk through this
one so it's the same statement of proof
and we can see that if I highlight
this
interestingly what is different about
one oh it's just the use of n versus Nat
I think n and Nat are the
same okay so R intro mnh K what does
that do that gives
us and if we hover over
even okay an element of a of a type
Alpha with addition satisfies even a if
a equals r + r for some R and Alpha or
of type
Alpha so then we
get basically we expanded out that K is
the r in that case and then HK is that
hypothesis that by definition is true so
we get that as part of our toolkit I
guess we need to prove M * n is twice a
natural number
so we need to prove M * n is twice a
natural number let's show it's twice M *
k
okay so then you rewrite the hypothesis
for the left hand side of the equality
you're trying to prove and then you use
this ring tactic that proves the rest of
it and ring just basically says that it
does all it can to figure out
this how how to rearrange this so that
it
works
as you enter each line of such a proof
in vs code lean dis displays the proof
state in a separate window telling you
what facts you have already established
and what tasks remain to prove your
theorem you can replay the proof by
stepping through the lines since lean
will continue to show you the state of
the proof at the point where the cursor
is in this example you'll see that the
first line of the proof introduces m&n
we could have renamed them uh and also
decomposes the hypoth is even n to a k
and the assumption that n = 2 * K or
really K plus K but whatever the second
line use M * K declares that we are
going to show that M * n is even by
showing that M * n is equal to 2 * n * K
the next line uses the rewrite tactic to
replace n by 2 * K in the goal and the
ring tactic solves the resulting
goal
that the ability to build a proof in
small steps with incremental feedback is
extremely powerful for that reason
tactic proofs are often easier and
quicker to write than proof
terms yeah the proof terms dude I don't
really get that there isn't a sharp
distinction between the two tactic
proofs can be inserted in proof terms as
we did with the phrase by rewrite HK Mo
leftcom in the above
example I don't think that was anywhere
actually but
whatever
we will also see con that conversely is
is often useful to ens short a short
proof term in the middle of a tactic
proof that said in this book our
emphasis will be on the use of tactics
in our example the tactic proof can also
be reduced to a
oneliner yeah just what semicolons it's
the same
thing here we have used tactics to carry
out small proof steps but they can also
provide substantial automation and
justify longer calculations and bigger
inferential steps for example we can
invoke lean simplifier with specific
rules for simplifying statements about
parity to prove our theorem
automatically let's see if I hover over
that doesn't give me anything about
that not
really
another big difference between the two
introductions
depends um only on core lean and it's
built-in tactics whereas mathematics and
lean is built on top of lean's powerful
and ever growing Library math lib as a
result we can show you how to use some
of the mathematical objects and theorems
in the
library and some of the very useful
tactics this book is not meant to be a
complete
overview rather our goal is to introduce
you to the style of thinking that
underlies that formalization and point
out basic entry points so that you are
comfortable browsing the library and
finding things on your
own interactive theor improving can be
frustrated and the learning curve is
steep but the lean okay
okay Basics this chapter is designed to
introduce you to the nuts and bolts of
mathematical reasoning in lean
calculating applying Lems and theorems
and reasoning about generic
structures we generally learn to carry
out mathematical calculations without
thinking of them as proof
but when we justify each step in a
calculation as Lan requires us to do the
net result is a proof that the left hand
side of the calculation is equal to the
right hand
side and lean stating a theorem is
tantum out to stating a goal namely the
goal of theor proving the
theorem lean provides the rewriting
tactic RW to replace the leftand side of
an identity by the right hand side of
the in the
goal
if a B and C are real numbers Mo aoke a
b c is the identity a * B * C is equal
to a * B * C and mold Comm a is the
identity a * B is equal to B * a lean
provides automation that generally
eliminates the need to refer the facts
to refer the facts like these explicitly
uh but they are useful for the purposes
of illustration in lean multiplication
Associates to the left so the left hand
side of moloso could be also written a a
* B * C however it's generally good
style to be mindful of lean's notational
conventions and leave out parenthesis
when lean
does
okay so we want to
proof that this is
true hold on I'm going to switch my
pants I'm
hot
e
okay test no drop frames okay I think
we're
good all
right so let's start
here we have three real
numbers and we have hold
on H the background removal actually is
pretty
good I'm very
surprised s all right what about now
there we go
so the first thing we're going to do is
swap A and B so that's what molec a
does then we're going to do mole of soak
and we're good that's
easy the import lines at the beginning
of the associated examples uh file
import the theory of the real numbers
from math lib as well as useful
automation for the sake of brevity we
generally suppress information like this
in the textbook okay whatever you're
welcome to make changes to see what
happens you can type the r okay the
symbol doesn't appear until you hit the
space or oh
tab you hover over a symbol when reading
a lean file show you the S
okay I want to try to state
that
for
e
I did this last time and I don't
understand what is wrong I type sorry
here okay we're
good
okay
so
um this is true but I have no idea how
to do it
okay wait first let's do
this
oh I do
that uh so then we want to do that R
cases
thing
no what did we do
earlier we use this sentex
here
why do I need to get rid of the
B all right let's try let's try the
other way I like the tactic R case oh
wait what was it intro R
intro k H
HK what's wrong what's wrong what's
wrong with
this
wait can't I just say
this so use is a great
tactic but I I want to know how to
rewrite that hypothesis how do I get
that
hypothesis
oh that's how we get it I forgot I have
to oh
okay
yeah or
whatever
why is it
going can I just say rewrite
even
yeah use one works
but use is like too much automation for
me I want to rewrite the can you just do
this oh wait what was that
oh that did
work and then I probably can still let's
see does that work oh interesting okay
so we can do
this we can
do use
one
okay so there those are two
proofs this is used
to okay all right I don't know how to do
this
one do later all right so now we have
more uh am I using
the right I already did all these things
you know what I'm going to do I made a
copy of
this so let's just go down
to here and we're going to go back to
okay all right so we have some of our
own to
do let's do
this all right so this is pretty simple
stuff I
think so first right
molec uh I guess we got to do
CB okay then we want to do rewrite mole
soak
BCA then we want to write rewrite
molec
CA and then we're good so that's it
that's the solution to that
one all right now what about this one we
have a c a * B * C and B * a * C all
right so first
off
mlec BC
oh wait
actually can I just do
this we it figure it
out oh wait I have to do this
right does it tell me that I am allowed
to do that
yet
okay yeah I didn't fully walk through
this I stated this problem because I
wanted to prove it but I don't think uh
it's going to
work
okay okay
so what is the name of that
symbol
entails
okay so sometimes people say Target for
just the thing and sometimes goal for
okay whatever try proving these
identities in each case replacing sorry
with a tactic proof using
rewrite you can use yeah okay so we're
allowed to use a SL L to reverse an
identity so molos left moloso ABC
replaces a * B * C with the
parenthesis note that the left pointing
Arrow refers to going from right to left
in the identity provided by moso so if
we hover over moloso just hover over it
we
see here this and so instead of going
this way to the right we go to the left
makes
sense and if you alt click this you can
actually see the
proof
okay let's keep
going so we're we are allowed to use
this but I have to
do
nice oh yeah you don't have to provide
the
arguments
oh that's
faster
cool and this one with only one argument
see what does it say about
that
okay
cool okay so what are we doing here we
have
um a * B * C
all right
so oh um
okay we did
it a b
e
okay wait where are we at the
beginning so if I rewrite this what this
will do is replace e with f so this
turned into F I think it highlights it
right yeah it highlights
it
okay that proof makes
sense
for
okay what's next so we got to do our
own all right that's
easy all right so what I'm going to do
right now rewrite mole a
so K uh
oh um see how to do
that now we want we
want there we go then we want to rewrite
H then we want to
do all right that was
easy so we added these parentheses so
that it was one term that matched this
thing because if if we comment this out
think that this will say failed to yeah
tactic rewrite
failed because it didn't find B time C
even though it's like kind of obvious
it's in there like that that's one thing
that is just really generally annoying
about
these dealing with Expressions is that
there's this implicit
parenthesis which makes it easier to
read but it's also really annoying so
anyways you have to do the moloso first
right so we got another one here so we
want to prove that C equals
z and I feel like we can just rewrite
hype oh wait we can rewrite hype at hype
like that or
something what is it we got to read this
one oh wait sub
self okay I'm going to try writing sub
self
see what does this even
mean a minus a okay so
first wait wait did I skip ahead what
happened skipped way ahead
okay okay we could rewrite hype re okay
I get it rewrite
hype okay then we want to
rewrite oh wait I think I can do this
all in one
line Okay cool so then uh we want to do
mole
Comm okay then sub sself all right that
was it that's
easy uh yeah but I feel like there
probably is a
way to go to go the other way where you
use one hypothesis to substitute that's
almost certainly exists I just don't
know what to do how to do
it is this the same proof what is
this didn't we just do this
one oh yeah it's just saying that you
can list them in a list or
whatever and you can still see the
incremental Pro progress by placing the
cursor after a comma
okay another trick is that we can
declare variables once and for all
outside an example or
theorem yeah that's
nice inspection of the tactic State at
the beginning of the above proof reveals
that lean indeed included all variables
we can delimit the scope of the
Declaration by putting it in a section
end block finally recall from the
introduction that lean provides us with
a command to determine the type of an
expression okay so we're going to just
walk through
those we got to zoom through this cuz I
already did all this [__] I'm just
reviewing all right so check a it's
going to be real check a plus b that's
also real check a of Type R that's going
to be a
proposition
no it's not a
proposition uh I think it's the exact
same as this it's just you are
certifying okay this is going to be a
type of equality or
something yeah it's a type
of prop and this is a proposition so if
I did this
check this it would be of type prop yeah
okay so this is a proposition this is
what they were saying earlier is that
the the thing this is a type p and p is
a
prop okay what is this one this is
probably the same
thing yeah that's the same
thing and then this is sort of the same
thing come
a and then this is interesting because
it's Quantified
overall and then mcom it's probably
Quantified over
both it doesn't actually say it's even
more General because it's it doesn't
even it just specifies the most
basic uh algebraic structure in which
the commutativity holds and there's a
name for that it's a magma commutative
magma the [__] is going on here
okay all right the check command works
for both objects and
facts the command check a of typ our
states our expectation that a is
R so wait so let's just try switching
that to
n
yeah I remember this there's an
upcast
okay I bet this whole
thing
ring that's so
awesome I wonder how that works
I probably could dive in and figure out
how ring works at some point that'd be
interesting I wonder if it tries to do
like a it takes both terms and does a
canonicalization
procedure that presumably there's one
form that you can arrive
at and then just check their equality I
don't know how that's how it works but
that would be how I think it's done
D I really want to walk through this
boring ass proof let's
see let's try some more examples the
theorem 2 mole a says that 2 * a is
equal to a plus a the theorems add mole
and mole add Express the distributivity
of multiplication over addition and the
theorem add a soak expresses the
associativity of
addition
okay mole add add mole add mole what
does that get
us so here
right and then it's just more
rearranging and more
rearranging oh yeah okay this Cal thing
I don't really like the Cal tactic it
does make it easier to read but it's
also kind of a boring exercise maybe
I'll skip
that how po
wow
okay fine let's just bang this out all
right so rewrite uh ad
Mo where we at here
I should be able to
do mole ad
right you guys today I went to this
dispensary and I parked in the wrong
parking lot and these [__] put like
a sticker on my car totally
ridiculous I mean it's like there right
but also like chill out I'm going to be
there for like 2
minutes there's like a bunch of spots if
it
was
um * C plus
8 I wish there was just a collect tactic
whatever could I just
do
um oh wait sorry I'm dumb as
hell okay we're
good rewrite let's just try
this
ring
easy
ring all right
so
uh uh
add
mole mole at mole
sub M
sub a *
a a * b b *
a yeah Mo
mcba
uh
uh add sub what is AD
sub uh sub
sself
or
wait oh that's
annoying Sub
sub okay wait hold on is there a way to
repeatedly apply cuz I want to do left
to
mole oh wait is it the other way around
no
what wait two no pow
two that's what I
want can I can I give it a
star for
whatever okay now
minus add some
sub is there a sub
ad ad moo what is AD
moo yeah admol is a classic what I
expected add
sub oh wait can I do
this
damn I I really [__] this one up I bet
I bet I could just do this
too ring easy AF f
okay what what's the solution I I don't
want to sit around just doing something
that's so
obvious uh
calculating
wait wait which one am I in I'm in
calculating I'm trying to Pro prove no I
already did all
these wait
what a + b * a minus B
bam
there's no solution to this one come on
man Sub sub it's got to be it's got to
be that I [__] this up
okay where are we at right
now wait what if I did
this
what do I want to do I
want a 2 - A * b + a *
B
okay wait let's read these again this
one's
obvious M sub is
fine let's try it again I'm G to try it
again I'm G do
this rewrite mool
sub mole
sub uh mole add no no add mole add
mole okay then we 8 *
8 okay yeah see that's how you're
supposed to do it because
uh I want to skip these so
that okay then which is the one that
gets rid of
the it's
uh oh wait we can do Sub sub
right but it's
left okay
then
weite
mcom
ba sub
sself
what oh
wait
uh oh wait is that going to
work
oh wait we can do add
sub Fu here we
go okay then we can do SUB
sself we do add zero and we're good hell
yeah
brother okay
cool that's a lot of Random rewriting
[__] that's not even in the solution
man can make a PR to do
it this is in section what calculating
right is it the last
one
oh here's what it was yeah you can
rewrite add a
hypothesis okay wait I want to
add
this I
think all right let's look at the
solutions
thing is that wait none of these are in
there this one's not in there
either
[__] all right so do we have to do those
too whatever I'm just going to add
this
okay we can get rid of all
[Music]
all
right so now
we're following exercise is more
challenging we can also perform
rewriting in an assumption in the
context with at
rewrite at
hypothesis should we walk through this
one Whatever I think we get
it and then the exact all right we'll do
it just for
exact all right so what did we do so we
had
um
we had the hypothesis that c is equal to
D * A +
B so we
rewrite this guy
with
um oh no no we rewrite hype with this
one so B so it's going to be C is equal
to D * a plus a *
D okay then more yeah that makes sense
then 2
mole and we're trying to prove that c is
equal to 2 * a * D given these
assumptions okay then you
do mole a
so and then your exact yeah okay cool an
exact is just saying that look we have a
hypothesis that literally matches the
thing that you're trying to prove so
then you were
good okay then it just shows that ring
does all this automation for us
especially this one which is a total
pain in the ass to figure
out okay what's
next did do you even need to do that
what happens if you do
this okay
whatever this really doesn't figure that
out oh I see it doesn't actually do
those okay that makes sense but once
it's in the format of ring
stuff the ring tactic is imported
indirectly when we import math lib data
real basic but we will see in the next
section that it can be used for
calculation on structure other than the
real number it can be imported
explicitly with the command import math
li.
tactic okay there's a variation of
rewrite called nth rewrite which allows
you to replace only a particular
instances of an expression in the goal
cool that's neat it's
useful math okay proving identities in
algebraic
structures mathematically a ring is a
collection of objects are operations
plus and times and constant 0 and one
and an operation X to minus X such that
r with Plus is an aelan group with zero
as the additive identity and negation as
the inverse multiplication is
associative with identity one and
multiplication distributes over addition
okay now we know what a ring is big deal
big freaking deal
man in lean the collection of objects is
represented as a type are the ring
axioms are as follows okay should we
read all these I feel like we don't need
[Music]
to
what's the big deal man all
right you will learn more about the
square brackets in the first line later
but for the time being suffice it to say
that the Declaration gives us a Type R
and a ring structure on
r
lean then allows us to use generic ring
notation with elements of
R and to make use of a library of
theorems about Rings the names of some
of the theorems should look familiar
they're exactly the ones we used to
calculate with real numbers in the last
section lean is not is lean is good not
only for proving things about concrete
mathematical structures like the natural
numbers and the integers but also for
proving things about abstract structures
characterized Axiom ially like
Rings moreover lean supports generic
reasoning about both abstract and
concrete structures and can be trained
to recognize appropriate instances so
any theorem about Rings could be applied
to concrete Rings like the integers the
rational numbers or the complex numbers
it can also be applied to any instance
of an abstract structure that extends
ring such as an ordered ring or a
field not all important properties of
the real numbers hold in an arbitrary
ring however for example multiplication
on the real numbers is commutative but
that does not hold in general if you
have taken a course in linear algebra
you recognize for every n the N byn
matrices of real numbers form a ring in
which community community usually
fails if we declare R to be a
commutative
ring when we say
commutative cuz there's is a ring where
the plus operation is non communative
either cuz this says that aan group I'm
pretty sure means communative
group um
okay if you declare R to be commutative
ring in fact all the theorems in the
last section continue to hold when we
replace R by
R pretty
cool we leave it to you to check that
all the other proofs go through
unchanged notice uh that when a proof is
short like by ring or by lar linear
arithmetic or by sorry is common and
permissible to put it on the same line
as the B okay
whatever the goal of this section is to
strengthen the skills you've developed
in the last section
and apply them to reasoning
axiomatically about Rings we will start
with the axioms listed above and use
them to derive other facts most of the
facts we prove are already in math lib
uh we will give the versions We prove
the same names to help you learn the
contents of the library as well as the
naming conventions lean Define lean
provides an organizational mechanism
similar to those used in programming
languages when a definition or theorem
fu is introduced into an aspace bar its
full name is baru wait
part up Boo Part up boo bro uh the
command open bar later opens the name
space which allows us to use the shorter
name
okay the next example shows that we do
not need add zero or add right
neg
because they fall off from the other
aams
okay let's walk through this so now
we're no longer
here
e
does it do it all over again oh no at
least it remembers
it
okay think I'm going to get some
fruit
for
okay
yeah because it's interesting because
there are terms that are just taken
definitionally or axiomatically like
mcom in the Rings
and you just accept
it
right you know I'm I'm curious
I want to see what happens if I
do I'm comment this out I'm going do
rewrite I'm going to say ring. add
zero
no oh
[__] wait what was it
was we go oh but it restarted the thing
that's really
annoying okay well I there there
probably is a way to just do
it
oh
yeah oh that's just showing the okay
whatever
do I do this
rewrite
um
wait so we want to get into that form so
we want to
do I'm pretty sure that's the one yeah
that's the one we want to do add left
neg so we want to do add a
soak okay then we want to
do uh add Comm
B then we want to do add left neg
oh we we could probably use no but you
know what it's probably better to only
use the axioms I mean what's the
difference it's the same but I guess for
the
exercise maybe it's okay and then add
zero yeah that's
fine okay
cool
add left
cancel can I do
this
uh
does that do
anything did not find it oh interesting
oh oh okay all right yeah that's why
co-pilot recommended me this ad zero
thing
wait that's
interesting I didn't find that
thing
okay but then you do this
thing I think if I give it
a
I think the way you do this is you exact
H or maybe you
rewrite yeah okay so let's do
this uh
[Music]
um can I do
addcom does that
work wait
what why can't I do that all wait I just
want to try
B okay all right I'm gonna do I'm gonna
do add a
soak that didn't
work okay then I want to
do rewrite
H okay so this is kind of like a
wonky and then add next
cancel
right can I do
that
uh oh wait you know
what I think that's
it
all right
cool right add left cancel add right
cancel did they say something about not
being able to
use
with enough planning you do each of them
with three rewrites I feel like that's
using this one but you know what we're
here to prove
them all right let's let's try to write
these
and I want to do rewrite add
Comm a at com c at
H right
okay
I can't do this rewrite add left cancel
h i I'm confused why I don't need to
exact
H
okay
oh this is a good one because it's not
an
axium that mole Z equals
[Music]
z okay
I show that
okay all
right
see have more
slack it's not going to work out
okay dude I hate this thing
these Chargers
that these Chargers that think it's good
idea to do this thing where you have
like the like the brick the Transformer
or whatever it's called should
be connected to the wall that's clearly
the better
design okay give me a
second
okay
okay we will now explain the use of the
curly
braces imagine you in a situation where
you have a b and c in your context as
well as the hypothesis h a b a plus b is
equal to a plus c now you would like to
draw the conclusion b equal C in lean
you can apply a theorem to a hypothesis
in facts just the same way you can apply
them to
objects so you might think that add left
cancel a b c h is a proof of the fact
but notice that explicitly writing a b
and c is
redundant because
h
okay so implicit arguments are when
curly
e
so after that we have a we have
H
wait
what
okay that one's a little strange but I
get
it we have used a new trick if you step
through the proof you can see what's
going on the have tactic introduces a
new goal with the same context as the
original goal the fact that the next
line is indented indicates that alen is
expecting a block of tactics that serve
to prove the new goal the indentation
therefore promotes a modular style of
proof the indented sub proof establishes
the goal that was introduced by the have
after that we are back to proving the
original goal except the new hypothesis
H has been added having proved that
we're now free to use it at this point
the goal is exactly the result of add
left cancel
AG we could equally well have closed the
proof with app ply left apply add left
cancel H or exact add left cancel H the
exact tactic takes as argument a proof
term which is completely which
completely proves the current goal
without creating any new goal the apply
is a variant whose argument is not
necessarily a complete proof the missing
pieces are either inferred automatically
by lean or become new goals to
prove
oh yeah right I remember this I did this
a couple days ago and I I was confused
by
it
e
what
for
e
I don't get why it's not add right
cancel should be add right cancel
right
because oh wait there's something weird
going
on oh no it is on the
left it's going to tripped up by the
uh
yeah
e
Sorry probably pretty loud all right all
right that one was this is probably not
optimal but we did
it it's weird that you
can't
does that
work I guess you don't need the ad
zero
yeah it's tottally
redundant
cool can you can can you rewrite this as
Ecom or something
thing
easy
son easy okay so we have neek of adic
zero oh because we
have
right
okay
wait that seems
weird
but a is minus
zero that seems
wrong I mean it's probably right but I
don't get
it
for
see
e
okay let's get back to it
so so ne ne
[Music]
what do we do here what do we have you
know what I want to try this thing I
love this
thing that's
stupid
this
doesn't wait it did it but I don't get
why it did
it okay we
have up here we have something of the
type minus minus a is equal to a
so
then e
neg
of add
e0 is of the form if you
have uh h of type A + B equals
then minus a = b
but I don't know why you're even allowed
to like I want to try
this does that
work oh my God look at that freaking
thing
well you can provide that
right but that didn't do what I
want
right because what I think I was hoping
for is that by going the other way and
giving it something of this form that I
could rewrite it
as uh so in this case yeah a
is to minus A and B is equal to a it's
very
confusing but anyways that would give me
um
- A + B =
0 which would be minus a + AAL 0 which
in that case we could
use uh probably neg
add
oh yeah it's probably not egg ad what is
it called
Right add bright
neg right so that's what I was hoping
for
but obviously didn't do what I
wanted
but then what so
okay but what I don't understand is how
apply is
using this to get
what so apply is smart enough
to go the other way somehow but doing
rewrite left or left
rewrite didn't I don't know
why I'm going to add a comment I don't
really understand
why oh that's
not I want to try that
again
for
[Music]
but it's
left
why doesn't that
change okay
whatever but
apply is able to get the a plus Bal zero
form from a A or
wait but anyway so we get
this and then we can just
do well I want to try rewrite again but
it's um it's going to
be add left neg and then we're good we
could probably we also just write
apply add
left
oh okay it's the same
thing
yeah I don't really get this
part cuz you go
from
okay so I feel like that was a good
one
in lean subtraction in a ring is
provably equal to addition of the
additive
inverse cool that's a good that's a good
theorem to
know sub e ad
NE on the real numbers is defined that
way notice the lack of BU the proof term
ref leive is short for
reflexivity presenting it as a proof of
a minus B is equal to A+ minus B forces
lean to unfold the definition and
recognize that both sides both sides is
being the the same the rfl tactic does
the same this is not an instance of what
is known this is an instance of what is
known as a definitional equality in
lean's underlying logic this means that
not only can one rewrite subad to
replace a minus B with A+ minus B but in
some context when dealing with the real
numbers you can use the two sides of the
equation
interchangeably for example you now have
enough information to prove the theorem
sub sself from the last
section
oh
yeah
sorry
okay show that you can prove this using
rewrite but if you replace the arbitrary
ring r with the real numbers you can
also prove it using apply or exact lean
knows that 1 + 1 equal 2 holds in any
ring that's so weird to me because
like what does two
mean like let's say you have a
ring of something real weird
like I don't know like a ring of graphs
or something weird I don't know if
that's possible
but it's just interesting that two exist
in all
Rings one existing is more of like a
hijack of symbols I feel like
but I don't
know all right let's do two
more oh yeah
okay
for
okay why did one mole do both of
them there's two
here what is
that
wait that's super
weird it said it starts
at
what is it some weird associativity
thing or something no CU this
is dude what
that is so
bizarre oh you know what
it oh no it did the first
one now if we duplicate this again
okay
that is really
strange okay well in any case let's keep
going all right we close this section by
noting that some of the facts about
addition and negation that we have
established above do not need the full
strength of the ring axioms or even
commutativity of addition the weaker
notion of a group can be axium matized
as follows additive group a add a soak
zero add and add left neeg that's all
you need for additive
group pretty cool
pretty
cool add group has add a
soak the zero
add add left how did we how did we
approve did we approve ad
zero without using any other things
like you must be able to prove ad zero
in additive groups let's look at
that
it's very interesting cuz you go to this
mole thing and they have generalized it
so that
one times 1 is the same as plus Z that's
very
cool but I want to I just want to see
the proof of it let's look at what we
did up above add
zero add
zero see we used but wait but we don't
we don't have that we can't just do
that maybe it's actually just like not
true no it's got to be
true how how how would that work if it
wasn't
[Music]
okay how can I
prove add
zero in
a
for
e
look at this stupid
proof doesn't gives up at the actual
part
wait is there
inverses oh
yeah all right start with 0 + AAL a
which is true by the zero add
axium add a inverse to both sides of the
equation from the
left okay so we have 0 + a = a want to
prove A+ 0 = a
in additive
group okay so then we do - A + 0 + a is
= to - a +
a the equation balance du to to the
group's
Properties by
associativity we can change it around so
- A + 0 + a is equal to - a +
a okay zero add so then minus a + a is
equal to minus
a plus
a wait what the hell what this proof is
total
nonsense what the [__] is
this this isn't right at all you know
what I'm going to take it to be true
it's got to be
true
for
what do you do you do okaye we
have
okay so let's just write this
out
um can I do I do this
thing uh wait hold on I'll just do
this
what's
wrong
huh we can get rid of the
section okay oh I I I guess I got it
name space is a is a named section or
something whatever
example
uh oh wait wait let's just do
this uh add
zero a
+0 equal
a we don't have this let's see hopefully
it it
says okay cool fail to
synthesize add commutative magma because
it's not it's not we don't have we don't
get to say that it's not
allowed so what can we
do
um presumably we can do
this there's only a couple of
options
uh oh
uh we don't have
right you know I'm going to use
that
okay all right so I've proven it to
myself the only thing that sus is this
one
but it's a similar thing of just like
doing
it did we do add right
EG
see ad right egg uses the uh
commutativity we don't want that there
has to be another way to do
this
okay I think we can probably just do
this flip it
around
uh
oh
wait um a + minus
a hold
on
um add right
egg is um minus a plus a is equal to Zer
a in a of type G that's what it is oh
wait no it's
the other way around plus minus
okay so
now how do you prove
it
you oh you know
what wait but I want to do it on the I
want to do it on the left
side
uh can I do it
again
for
oh wait am
I dumb is it not
just I don't think I can just
do I don't think I can just inverted
that's totally
void
oh I
think um could I do
this
um wait but that doesn't add it to the
right side
damn
son
for
damn dude how do you do this why isn't
why am I so dumb at
this
help
me prove
add
Right add
Coss
for
this is such a [__] pop out
dude what a dip [__]
man
all right let's keep going let's keep
going I'm going skip
that
I know it's
true
oh [__] yeah see this is this is what I
was going down the road
of
there right
whatever
f
I look and
[Music]
see I mean I was basically doing exactly
what this exercise is this is tough
though mole right in is the one that I
got stuck
on ADD zero
is the same as mole one and this I can
probably just basically copy
over mole
in rev I don't know what that
is this
is that that one looks hard cuz that one
looks like a real derivation it's not
just like
a commutative thing it's like a
real sort of n
thing basically what it's saying is we
have - A + B is equal to - A+ minus
B is equal to minus a minus
B
whatever
so [__] I don't like this I want to
go
home this this is a tough one
[Music]
I look
inside
for
[Music]
spe
okay so we're trying to prove I don't
like this I don't like this this syntax
with mole and inverse I'd rather use
minuses so we're going to do
a
uh plus minus a is equal to zero it's
the same
thing and what we have
is
um and we have one this
is ADD
soak we
have
two
um uh Z
add which
is
um 0 + a is equal to a then we have
three which
is - a + a is equal to
Z okay so I got stuck on
the
the first one I I kind of want to look
at the answer but I feel like maybe I
should try
it so what we want to prove
is I'm going to
proove
um a + - A
you go to
zero
[__]
it I spent long enough thinking about
this
one
for
okay all right so what do
we all
right
so
have
H A * a inverse
inverse
[Music]
time a * a inverse * a * a
inverse God I hate this syntax so
confusing so what would this be in add
would be a + - a = z and H would
be a + - A minus
so+ a + - a
+ a
+us okay so let me just write that out
so we
have it would
be
minus a + minus
a
plus a + -
A+ okay so then they do a
soak
wait what
changed
what do we get
here mole left inverses is the same
as
um
add
[Music]
left
okay wait till right
here okay so then we get a
one then we have one Mo which is the
same as ADD zero
okay the mole left
inverse
right so now that we
have
H we want to
rewrite wait what does that
do
cool that's a crazy proof that's really
good that that's one to
review
where was this put even I didn't even
see that
thing
[Music]
I look
outside
sad it's the
[Music]
only
can't feel your pain and I feel all
right about it I can't feel your pain
and I feel all right
it feel
your all
[Music]
right
e
wait
what so then we did
this right and then we
did
this - A plus a minus
a oh
wait okay then we
did
this then we
did this
then we
did
this so then that that's a proof of
H it's a really
interesting really cool
actually and so then with
h
um you rewrite it on the Le the right
hand
side you just cancel those guys
out and then one mole and then you have
the equality that's really really
cool yeah from the associativity you get
this like it's not commutative but you
have this commutative property
of of multiplication by one or adding by
zero
or or rather the uh commutativity of in
in of multiplying by inverses
or adding
inverses or inverses added
to it's all weird symbol
manipulation okay
yeah
and then this one this one is exactly
what I wrote earlier and I just relied
on ad right egg because I didn't I
didn't prove this one this one is
definitely hard for me I didn't get that
one
and now this one is an interesting one
because we
have A+ B
inverse or minus is equal to oh and it's
actually B minus B+ minus
a you know what's interesting thing
about this one I might skip this one
this one looks complicated because
what's crazy about this is it's minus B
time minus a not or plus
not a
first I
wonder I wonder if the other way is
true
it
probably it probably isn't
right
because that would be the same as
saying oh what
the which
because
yeah so it's just not
true so that's a really interesting one
because that would be the same as saying
that
crazy should I walk through this one I
feel like I should keep going this one's
tough look how many rewrites there
are
all right let's let's keep
going wait I want to
try
that's
sick see all these
things all right two section 2.3 using
theorems and
L rewriting is great for proving
equations but what about other sorts of
theorems for example how can we prove an
inequality like the fact a plus e to the
b m to the
B is less than or equal to a plus e to
the C holds whenever B is less than or
equal to C we've already seen that
theorems can be applied to arguments and
hypotheses and that the apply and exact
tactics can be used to solve
goals in this section we make good use
to these tools consider the library
theorems less than or equal to uh
flexive and less than or equal to
transitive all right so here we can see
that a is less than or equal to a for
all a and a less than b uh B less than C
implies a less than
C or less than equal to as we explain in
more deail in section 31 the implicit
parentheses in the statements of Le
trans associate to the right
so it should be interpreted as a less
than b
implies I I don't even know how to read
these I I really hate these I'd rather
just list them out it it confuses
me the library designers have set the
arguments a b and c to ell trans
implicit so that lean will not let you
provide them explicitly unless you
really insist rather it expects to infer
them from the context in which they're
being used for example the hypothesis H
and H Prime are in the context all of
the following will
work
e
[Music]
3our
stream the let's see how far do we
actually get we haven't even finished a
chapter we're halfway through a
chapter
for all right I'm gonna end it I'm gonna
start the stream up again in a
minute but we're going to be we're going
to be
um priming a canvas for
painting